CrateDB is a perfect fit in
scenarios where you need a
distributed SQL database that
excels in handling large amounts
of data.
Let's look at some specific use
cases and scenarios where CrateDB
shines.
First the Internet of Things.
Here we need to store and
analyse massive volumes of
sensor data in near real time.
Applications for this can
include smart cities, industrial
IoT or telematics. Next: time
series.
Here we want to handle high
velocity data streams and
perform time based queries
efficiently over large data
sets, again in real time or near
real time.
This is ideal for applications
such as monitoring systems,
financial market data analysis,
and environmental data tracking.
When working with logs, CrateDB
is a very good choice for
ingesting, storing, and
analysing log data from various
sources such as web servers,
applications, and network
devices.
CrateDB can provide insights
into operational performance and security.
When working with
geospatial data,
Crate's support for geospatial
queries makes it suitable for
location based services and
applications that require the
processing and visualisation of
geospatial data.
CrateDB's horizontal
scalability and ability to
handle large data sets make it
suitable for big data
applications and use as an
application backend.
Also, don't forget that through
CrateDB's support of the
PostgreSQL wire protocol, you can
have access to a large range of
drivers in popular programming
languages.
Let's now turn to AI and ML.
CrateDB has native support for
vectors and a performance
similarity search that many AI
applications require.
When building digital twins you
will have generated vast amounts
of datas from sensors and other
IoT devices.
CrateDB's architecture is
optimised for ingesting and
processing large scale data in
real time and this is essential
for keeping your digital twin
applications updated.
If you require a database that
could provide real time insight
and support for analytical
queries on large data sets then
CrateDB's, distributed SQL
engine, flexible schemas and
column of storage format make it
an ideal choice.
There are many benefits to
consolidating all of your data
into one database.
CrateDB is ideal for this with its
support for different data
formats and types, both
structured and semi structured
objects, BLOB and vectors.
Querying is done through a
standard SQL interface, which
makes your database
consolidation applications much
easier to develop and maintain.
All of these projects apply
equally across today's modern
data intensive industries.
As shown on the slide.
As a company, CrateDB has
achieved a score of 4.4 out of
five on the G2 Reviews site.
Our customers also rate our
support 4.9 out of five when
surveyed.
Adoption is growing and we see
many interesting use cases
across a range of industries.
When should you use CrateDB?
It works well for use cases
where you have relationships
between different data sets and
those are of different types.
For example, you might have a
mix of structured, semi
structured, unstructured or time
series data.
You may also be working with
real time analytics or
monitoring application
analytics.
Don't forget that CrateDB also
supports full text search based
on Apache Lucene.
It's a great choice for event
tracking, geospatial data
analysis and all hybrid
applications.
When deploying CrateDB, you can
deploy in the cloud or on
premises in your own data
centre.
When choosing CrateDB, there's
a couple of things to bear in mind.
It's eventually consistent and
strongly consistent on primary
key lookups.
It favours normalised data
models.
When designing for CrateDB,
you'll need to keep these things
in mind.